<!--#include virtual="/includes/sdss_page_top.html"-->
<!--#include virtual="/includes/sdss_page_surveyops.html"-->


<H4 align=center>Sloan Digital Sky Survey<BR>   <BR><FONT size=5>Review of Observing Systems and SDSS 
Operations</FONT><FONT size=3><BR>Apache Point Observatory,</FONT><FONT 
size=3><BR>&nbsp;April 25-27, 2000<BR><BR>Agenda and Plan</FONT>     
 </H4><FONT face=Palatino>
<HR id=HR1 style="HEIGHT: 6px">

<P align=center>&nbsp;</P>
<P><FONT size=2><STRONG>April 25</STRONG> (afternoon, 3:00 - 6:00 p.m.)</FONT>     
</P>
<P><FONT size=2>After a brief introduction, the review will 
start with three overview talks that are intended to give the reviewers an 
understanding of the scope of the project, its status and how the work at Apache 
Point Observatory (APO) is accomplished. I plan to allocate an hour and a half 
to these three talks, with half the time assigned to the technical overview 
talk.</FONT>                                                              </P>


<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Technical overview of the SDSS project 
  including the goals of the Survey, a very high level status of the Survey, and 
  an introduction to the major subsystems. (Special emphasis will be given to 
  the optics since that will not be covered in the subsystem reports.): Jim 
  Gunn</FONT>                                               </LI></UL>



<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>An overview of data processing and data 
  distribution at Fermilab. The purpose of this talk is to give the reviewers an 
  overview of what happens to the data after it leaves APO, how it is used to 
  determine performance of the subsystems, and how it is used to provide the 
  drill files for plug plates. A review of the data processing and distribution 
  will be held at Fermilab some six to eight weeks later and at that time those 
  subjects will be presented more thoroughly. (Special emphasis will be given to 
  the steps between the delivery of magnetic tapes to Fermilab and the 
  preparation of drilling files that are sent to University of Washington.): 
  Steve Kent</FONT>                                                                                                                     </LI></UL>



<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Summary of SDSS operations at APO to 
  date and the organization of the site staff, including non-NMSU folks. This 
  will include a description of the size and functions of the staff at APO, 
  including what they do and how they are organized. The role of the off-site 
  project staff (commissioners, developers, and builders) will be described. 
  (Emphasis will be given to performance statistics through the three dark runs 
  prior to April 24.): Bruce Gillespie</FONT>                                                                           </LI></UL>



<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Tour of the facilities. One hour will be 
  allocated to the tour. This should enable the reviewers to see the 2.5-m 
  telescope, .5-m telescope, and the support building. During the tour the 
  reviewers will witness the following activities; moving the building away from 
  the telescope in preparation for the start up of the nights observing, the 
  start of system checkout by the observers, and the plugging of a plate in the 
  support building. I am hoping that they can witness an instrument change later 
  in the evening after dinner.</FONT>                                                                                          </LI></UL>


<B><FONT 
size=2><P>April 25</B> (evening, 6:00 - 10:00 p.m.)</FONT></P>

<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Executive session with management and 
  working dinner. Any remaining issues on the charge would be discussed and 
  resolved at this time.</FONT>                     </LI></UL>



<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Interaction with the observers who are 
  present after dinner. I would like the reviewers to witness an instrument 
  change or plate change. The goal should be to let them witness normal 
  operations as opposed to staged demonstrations.</FONT>                                    </LI></UL>


<B><FONT size=2><P>April 26 </B>(morning 7:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.)</FONT></P>
<P><FONT size=2>The Committee will meet at breakfast in 
executive session. This will allow them to discuss their impressions and prepare 
for the day. After breakfast a set of technical talks describing each 
hardware/software subsystem will be scheduled. These talks are intended to 
provide the reviewers with an overview of the status of each subsystem. Each 
talk should have the following contents: the subsystem requirements, the extent 
to which the requirements have been met, the plan to incorporate needed 
improvements to allow the subsystem to meet requirements and make the system 
operational (this includes making the system observer friendly), and the 
maintenance plan for the subsystem. A transparency of relevant science data that 
demonstrates that the subsystem will do marvelous science will be very 
valuable.</FONT>                                                                                                                               </P>

<P><FONT size=2>Each talk should enumerate the major 
problems that need to be fixed and these problems should be enumerated in Jim 
Gunn's talk (failure to meet technical requirements) or Bruce's talk 
(inefficient or unreliable operation) in order to be classified as major 
problems. The speakers should review the logs of the January-February, 
February-March, and March-April dark runs for problems in their subsystems. The 
speakers will be asked to find the documentation for each system so that it can 
be made available to the reviewers. I hope to assemble the material, which 
exists on our multiple web sites, in a single, accessible web site. </FONT>                                                                                                       </P>


<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>2.5-m telescope: F. Leger </FONT>    
  
<LI><FONT size=2>Imaging camera: C. Rockosi </FONT>    
  
<LI><FONT size=2>Spectrographs: J. Brinkmann </FONT>   
  
<LI><FONT size=2>Instrument change system: D. Long 
</FONT>     
  
<LI><FONT size=2><FONT size=2>Motion 
  control processor and TCC: R. Lupton</FONT>    </FONT>
  <LI><FONT size=2><FONT size=2>Interlocks: J. Anderson</FONT></FONT>
  <LI><FONT size=2><FONT size=2><FONT size=2>Data acquisition system: D. 
  Petravick</FONT></FONT></FONT>
  <LI><FONT size=2>Photometric Telescope: A. Uomoto </FONT></LI></UL>


<P><FONT size=2>These eight presentations, including time 
for discussion, will be allocated 160 minutes. These talks will be followed by 
two presentations by the observers.</FONT>                      </P>


<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Observers tasks and responsibilities: 
  This talk should describe what they do in the course of a day or night. It 
  should be a follow up on Bruce's talk. It should include a description of the 
  observer's manuals and system checkout procedures. It should present the 
  observers perspective on the reliability and efficiency improvements that are 
  needed to enable them to do their job. Scot Kleinman </FONT>                                                                     </LI></UL>



<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Version control of the observers 
  programs (IOP, SOP, MOP, MCP, and TCC), logs, and bug reports. This talk would 
  explain how the observers and the developers control the code for operations, 
  while improving observing efficiency. It should also describe the feedback 
  mechanism between observers, developers, and management. Ellyne Kinney is the 
  natural person to give this talk, since she has managed version control for 
  the observers.</FONT>                                                                    </LI></UL>


<P><FONT size=2>These talks will be allocated a total of 30 
minutes including discussion.</FONT>           </P>

<P><FONT size=2>The final talk of the morning will describe 
how we decide that a particular subsystem has met the requirements and the 
extent to which the data has met the science quality requirements. This talk 
will be allocated 30 minutes including discussion.</FONT>                                         </P>


<UL>

<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Scientific Commissioning and 
    Requirements: The content of this talk will be presented by Andy Connolly 
    and Jim Gunn.</FONT>                  </LI></UL>
</UL>


<P><FONT size=2>These formal presentations will start at 
8:30 and end at 12:30. A break of twenty minutes will be scheduled during that 
period. </FONT>                        </P>

<B><FONT size=2><P>April 26</B> (afternoon 12:30 - 2:00 p.m.)</FONT></P>
<P><FONT size=2>From 12:30 to 2:00 the Committee will have 
lunch in executive session where they will discuss what they have heard and 
seen. At this time I want them to formulate questions for the SDSS staff 
participating in three breakout sessions, which will meet later in the 
afternoon. If the Committee has not already made writing assignments, it should 
do this before the executive session ends.</FONT>                                                                 </P>

<P><FONT size=2>The three breakout session groups will meet 
with typically two or three Committee members. The Committee will set the 
agenda. The SDSS staff participating in each breakout session will include the 
presenters and other SDSS staff who will be at APO. The Committee will be asked 
to focus on the following topics:</FONT>                                                      </P>


<UL>

<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Hardware systems and their 
    maintenance. (The committee's questions could address our change control 
    processes for hardware, our plans for improvements over the next nine to 
    twelve months, and the way we will support the maintenance and improvements, 
    among other things) I expect Bill Boroski will be the lead SDSS person, with 
    French Leger, Connie Rockosi, Jon Brinkmann, and John Anderson, 
    participating.</FONT>                                                            </LI></UL>
</UL>



<UL>

<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Observer and observatory operations. 
    This will be the place and time to review the observer software programs 
    with the developers and the observers. Software systems (The question should 
    include how we handle version control and maintenance and development). I 
    expect Chris Stoughton will be the lead SDSS person, with Don Petravick, 
    Robert Lupton, Dan Long, Bruce Gillespie, Jim Annis, and the observers, who 
    are not on shift, present. I hope that Ellyne Kinney and Scot Kleinman can 
    be present.</FONT>                                                                                 </LI></UL>
</UL>



<UL>

<UL>
<LI><FONT size=2>Systems requirements and scientific 
    commissioning. The SDSS staff participating in this discussion should be 
    prepared to discuss the role of management in establishing the requirements 
    and their role in determining that they have been met. This will be the 
    place to discuss how the photometric calibration and final calibration are 
    done. This will be the place where the integration process that allows us to 
    do target selection could be discussed. This is where science commissioning 
    gets discussed. It will also be the place and time for the Committee to 
    explore how the project is managed with the astronomers and management. I 
    expect that Jim Gunn will be the lead SDSS person, with Steve Kent, Andy 
    Connolly, Alan Uomoto, and myself present. </FONT>                                                                                                                              </LI></UL>
</UL>


<P><FONT size=2>The breakout sessions should start by 3:00 
p.m. and last for two to two and a half hours. After the breakout sessions 
conclude, the Committee will go into executive session and meet for an hour to 
an hour and a half and discuss what they have heard. I hope that they can 
produce an outline of the report and start to write before dinner. The SDSS 
management will be available to discuss any issues that need resolution at this 
time or after dinner.</FONT>                                                                                     </P>
<B><FONT size=2>
<P>April 26</B> (evening)</FONT></P>
<P><FONT size=2>There will be a dinner that evening 
(starting at 7:00) and after the dinner I hope that individual Committee members 
can do some writing. We will provide secretarial support to convert their notes 
or floppy disks into a draft report with a common format. Don Dufford will 
manage this process. Luann O'Boyle, Administrative Aide to John Peoples, will 
help Don that night and the following day. I note that the APO staff will be 
handling the logistics and providing other general support. </FONT>                                                                                      </P>

<B><FONT size=2><P>April 27</B> (morning)</FONT></P>
<P><FONT size=2>The Committee will have breakfast and then 
meet in executive session. I want them to prepare the individual sections of 
their draft report at this time. The SDSS staff should be available to answer 
any further questions that the Committee members might have. Don and Luann will 
do their best to get the Committee's notes into a common form by 11 a.m. At 11 
there will be a closeout with the SDSS participants. Since a dark run will be in 
progress observers and developers should take their assigned shifts.</FONT>                                                                                            </P>

<P><FONT size=2>I have invited Hirsh Cohen (Alfred P. Sloan 
Foundation), James Breckinridge (NSF), Mike Crisler (Fermilab) Tim Heckman 
(Chair, ARC Board of Governors), and Arthur Davidson (Chair, Advisory Council) 
to attend the review.</FONT>                               </P>

<P><FONT size=2>I have included the names and addresses of 
the Committee members for your convenience. Please check your listing to make 
sure I have not made an error.</FONT>                           </P>
<B><P ALIGN="center"><FONT size=2></FONT> &nbsp;</P>
<P align=left><FONT size=2>Committee Members</FONT></P>
</B><FONT size=2>
<P>Jim Crocker (Chair),<BR>The Johns Hopkins 
University<BR>3400 North Charles Street<BR>Baltimore, MD 21218</FONT><BR><A href="mailto:Jcrocker@pha.jhu.edu"><FONT FACE="Palatino">Jcrocker@pha.jhu.edu</FONT></A></FONT></P>
<FONT FACE="Palatino">
<P><FONT size=2>Richard Green <BR>KPNO/NOAO<BR>950 North Cherry 
Avenue<BR>P.O. Box 26732<BR>Tucson, AZ 85726  <U></FONT><BR><FONT 
size=2><A 
href="mailto:rgreen@noao.edu">mailto:rgreen@noao.edu</A> </FONT> </P></U><FONT size=2>
<P>Ruth Pordes<BR>Fermilab<BR>PO Box 500, MS 
120<BR>Batavia, IL 
60510 </FONT><BR><A href="mailto:ruth@fnal.gov"><FONT FACE="Palatino">ruth@fnal.gov</FONT></A>
<FONT FACE="Palatino">  </FONT><BR>    </FONT>
<FONT FACE="Palatino"><BR><FONT size=2>Ralf-Rainer Rohloff<BR>MPIA<BR>Koenigsstuhl 
17<BR>D-69117 Heidelberg<BR>Germany 
</FONT>  </FONT><BR><A href="mailto:&nbsp;rohloff@mpia-hd.mpg.de" ><FONT FACE="Palatino" size=2>rohloff@mpia-hd.mpg.de</FONT></A></P>
<FONT FACE="Palatino"><FONT size=2>
<P>Alan Schier<BR>J. Alan Schier Company<BR>  3130 Foothill Blvd., Unit 1<BR>
  La Crescenta, CA 91214<BR></FONT><A href="mailto:schier@compuserve.com"><FONT FACE="Palatino">schier@compuserve.com</FONT></A><FONT FACE="Palatino">    </FONT><BR></P>
<P><FONT size=2>Gary Schmidt <BR>Dept. of Astronomy/Steward Observatory<BR>University of 
Arizona<BR>Tucson, AZ 85721<U></FONT><FONT size=2> <BR><A 
href="mailto:gschmidt@as.arizona.edu">gschmidt@as.arizona.edu</A></FONT></U><FONT 
size=2> </FONT> </P>
<P><FONT size=2>Steve Smee <BR>NIST Center for Neutron Research<BR>100 Bureau Drive, Stop 
8395<BR>Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8395<U></FONT><BR><FONT size=2><A 
href="mailto:smee@eng.umd.eduSidney">smee@eng.umd.edu</A></FONT></U></P><FONT 
size=2>
<P>Sidney Wolff<BR>National Optical Astronomy Observatories<BR>950 North Cherry 
Avenue<BR>P. O. Box 26732<BR>Tucson, AZ 85726 
</FONT><BR><A href="mailto:swolff@noao.edu"><FONT FACE="Palatino">swolff@noao.edu</FONT></A>
  </FONT>
<FONT FACE="Palatino">
<B><FONT size=2></FONT>
</B>    </FONT></P>
<P><FONT face=Palatino><B><FONT size=2>Review Support Staff</FONT></P></B>
<P><FONT size=2>John Peoples<BR>Fermilab<U></FONT><BR><FONT size=2><A 
href="mailto:Peop@fnal.gov">Peop@fnal.gov</A></FONT></U><BR><FONT size=2>630-840-4085</FONT></P>
<P><FONT size=2>Mike Evans<BR>University of Washington<U></FONT><BR><FONT size=2><A 
href="mailto:evans@astro.washington.edu">evans@astro.washington.edu</A></FONT></U><BR><FONT size=2>206-685-7857</FONT></P>
<P> </P><FONT size=2>
<P>Don Dufford<BR>Johns Hopkins 
University </FONT><BR><A href="mailto:dufford@pha.jhu.edu"><FONT FACE="Palatino">dufford@pha.jhu.edu</FONT></A>
<FONT FACE="Palatino">  </FONT><BR><FONT 
size=2>410-516-6612</FONT></P><FONT size=2>
<P>Luann O'Boyle<BR>Fermilab 
</FONT><BR><A href="mailto:Luann@fnal.gov"><FONT FACE="Palatino">Luann@fnal.gov</FONT></A>
<FONT FACE="Palatino">  
  </FONT><BR><FONT 
size=2>630-840-4229</FONT></P><FONT size=2>

<P>Gretchen Van Doren<BR>Apache Point 
Observatory </FONT><BR><A href="mailto:gretchen@apo.nmsu.edu" ><FONT FACE="Palatino">gretchen@apo.nmsu.edu</FONT></A>
<FONT FACE="Palatino">    </FONT><BR><FONT 
size=2>505-437-6822</FONT></P><FONT size=2>

<P>Bruce Gillespie<BR>Apache Point 
Observatory </FONT><BR><A href="mailto:Gillespi@apo.nmsu.edu"><FONT FACE="Palatino">Gillespie@apo.nmsu.edu</FONT></A> </FONT>
<FONT FACE="Palatino"><BR><FONT 
size=2>505-437-6822</FONT></P>
<HR id=HR1 style="HEIGHT: 6px"><P>&nbsp;<FONT size=2><EM><STRONG>Review of Observing 
Systems and Survey Operations<BR></STRONG>Apache Point Observatory<BR>April 
25-27, 2000</EM></FONT>  </P>
</FONT>
<!--#include virtual="/includes/sdss_page_bottom.html"-->
